---
layout: post
title: Algorithms Extra Credits
description: Some gems that taught me the beauty of algorithms
---

I previously [wrote about how I studied algorithms to pass Google's
interviews](https://ethantruong.net/My-Art-to-Studying-Algorithms.html) where I
discussed watching university lectures.  while I wrote about my core approach
which I have found very effective and think is underrated given I have never
heard anyone doing it, I left out what I think are some of the most underrated
resources.

All of the courses I labeled were the "introductory" material, and there are
more advanced courses taught at each of collegiate institutions, usually the
same lecturer, so you can follow up if any of them had a style that is
complementary to your learning style.

 - MIT

 - Stanford

 - Princeton

There are some people who took me a little further down the rabbit hole and left
me a little more in awe of how little I can grasp the depth of this topic.

[Keith Schwarz](http://www.keithschwarz.com/), lecturer at Stanford. I stumbled
onto one of his lectures on  [range minimum
queries](http://web.stanford.edu/class/archive/cs/cs166/cs166.1166/lectures/00/Small00.pdf)
that further enthralled me with algorithmic elegance. I believe the whole site
is a hidden goldmine.

*The* best material for graph theory has been from Research Unit M9. I know very
little about them, and I had trouble finding all their great material, but the
best I could do to get a listing of their core material to learn from is this
[Google query against their
site](https://www.google.com/search?q=site:https://www-m9.ma.tum.de/+inurl:algorithms).
If you are having any trouble understanding some of the classics (e.g.
[Djikstra's
algorithm](https://www-m9.ma.tum.de/graph-algorithms/spp-dijkstra/index_en.html) or [A\*](https://www-m9.ma.tum.de/graph-algorithms/spp-a-star/index_en.html))
or some of the more advanced/arcane (e.g. [Edmond's Blossom
Algorithm](https://www-m9.ma.tum.de/graph-algorithms/matchings-blossom-algorithm/index_en.html),
this site has incredibly hidden treasures to teach graph theory.

Raymond Hettinger has created and shared great material, often emphasizing
actual application of his ideas, such as his implementation of ["compact
dictionaries in Python 3"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p33CVV29OG8). This
opened my eyes to how something as fundamental as hash tables are continuing to
evolve today.

